---
layout: post
title:  "openstack Keystone v3"
date:   2020-07-13 23:00:00 +0800
categories: Openstack
tags: Openstack-Keystone
excerpt: openstack Keystone v3
mathjax: true
typora-root-url: ../
---

# openstack Keystone v3

As of the Queens release, Keystone solely implements the [Identity API v3](https://docs.openstack.org/api-ref/identity/v3/). Support for Identity API v2.0 has been removed in Queens in favor of the [Identity API v3](https://docs.openstack.org/api-ref/identity/v3/).

Identity API v3 is a superset of all the functionality available in the Identity API v2.0 and several of its extensions, and provides a much more consistent developer experience.

# Concept in keystone v3

- project

- domain

  - A major new feature in v3 is domains. Every project, user, and user group is owned by a domain (reflected by their `domain_id` value) which provides them their own namespace. For example, unlike in v2.0, usernames are no longer unique across the deployment. You can have two users with the same name, but they must be in different domains. However, user IDs are assigned to users by keystone and are expected to be unique across the deployment. All of this logic applies to projects, user groups and roles.

    One of the great things about domains is that you can have one domain backed by SQL (for service users) and another backed by LDAP (the cloud is deployed into existing infrastructure).

  - A domain is a collection of users, groups, and projects. Each group and project is owned by exactly one domain.

    Each domain defines a namespace where certain API-visible name attributes exist, which affects whether those names must be globally unique or unique within that domain. In the Identity API, the uniqueness of these attributes is as follows:

    - *Domain name*. Globally unique across all domains.
    - *Role name*. Unique within the owning domain.
    - *User name*. Unique within the owning domain.
    - *Project name*. Unique within the owning domain.
    - *Group name*. Unique within the owning domain.

- group

  - A group is a collection of users. Each group is owned by a domain.

    You can use groups to ease the task of managing role assignments for users. Assigning a role to a group on a project or domain is equivalent to assigning the role to each group member on that project or domain.

    When you unassign a role from a group, that role is automatically unassigned from any user that is a member of the group. Any tokens that authenticates those users to the relevant project or domain are revoked.

    As with users, a group without any role assignments is useless from the perspective of an OpenStack service and has no access to resources. However, a group without role assignments is permitted as a way of acquiring or loading users and groups from external sources before mapping them to projects and domains.

- application credential

  - Application credentials provide a way to delegate a user’s authorization to an application without sharing the user’s password authentication. This is a useful security measure, especially for situations where the user’s identification is provided by an external source, such as LDAP or a single-sign-on service. Instead of storing user passwords in config files, a user creates an application credential for a specific project, with all or a subset of the role assignments they have on that project, and then stores the application credential identifier and secret in the config file.

# Difference between v2 & v3

- A “tenant” in v2.0 became a “project” in v3.
- The authentication method (`password`) is explicitly identified.
- Both the user name (`my-username`) and project name (`project-x`) are namespaced by an owning domain (where `id` = `default`). The “default” domain exists by default in Keystone, and automatically owns the namespace exposed by Identity API v2.0. Alternatively, you may reference users and projects that exist outside the namespace of the default domain, which are thus inaccessible to the v2.0 API.
- In v3, your token is returned to you in an `X-Subject-Token` header, instead of as part of the request body. You should still authenticate yourself to other services using the `X-Auth-Token` header.

# Get token

## v2

```shell
curl --location --request POST ``'https://dev-ocp2-keystone-srv.qa.webex.com:443/v2.0/tokens'` `\``--header ``'Content-Type: application/json'` `\``--data-raw '{``  ``"auth"``: {``    ``"tenantName"``: ``"admin"``,``    ``"passwordCredentials"``: {``      ``"username"``: ``"admin"``,``      ``"password"``: ``"********"``    ``}``  ``}``}'` `{`` ``"access"``: {``  ``"token"``: {``   ``"issued_at"``: ``"2020-07-09T09:22:06.000000Z"``,``   ``"expires"``: ``"2020-07-09T15:22:06Z"``,``   ``"id"``: ``"14ecb0d4bcfe469093badc9cedde3347"``,``   ``"tenant"``: {``    ``"description"``: ``"Admin Tenant"``,``    ``"enabled"``: ``true``,``    ``"id"``: ``"95262f1f45f14170b91cd8054b226512"``,``    ``"name"``: ``"admin"``   ``},``   ``"audit_ids"``: [``    ``"JJeIZXKyTouTlxU33vDIzQ"``   ``]``  ``},``}
```

v3

```shell
curl --location --request POST ``'http://10.100.32.50:5000/v3/auth/tokens'` `\``--header ``'Content-Type: application/json'` `\``--data-raw '{``  ``"auth"``: {``    ``"identity"``: {``      ``"methods"``: [``        ``"password"``      ``],``      ``"password"``: {``        ``"user"``: {``          ``"name"``: ``"admin"``,``          ``"domain"``: {``            ``"name"``: ``"Default"``          ``},``          ``"password"``: ``"********"``        ``}``      ``}``    ``}``  ``}``}'` `HTTP/``1.1` `201` `CREATED``Date: Thu, ``09` `Jul ``2020` `09``:``26``:``32` `GMT``Server: Apache``Content-Length: ``312``X-Subject-Token: gAAAAABfBuLJjB3Emwc1fqouEFXfhwUWL5VnkUFXwmsS6JcRyzcy6-OgtZJ1F7N1U7IgDHCL6ALIuq0SWUO3dtAA45jD7Meeht5B-rV9A1DBTY13Et8YxyBHu-mxZsryKMMejbDtUa3mY-yPEKNK9fgGd2uPVMJqFF``Vary: X-Auth-Token``x-openstack-request-id: req-1b855f09-891f-4e47-96b9-c8191ef3f338``Content-Type: application/json
```